Contributors: Elen Gabrielyan & Ruben Gevorgyan


Begin by reading Section 3 through Section 6 of The Economist's 2017 article  "Quantum Technology is Beginning to Come into Its Own."
https://www.economist.com/news/essays/21717782-quantum-technology-beginning-come-its-own

This article addresses the past, present, and future of quantum computing, and includes perspectives from Prof. Aram Harrow and Prof. David Kaiser from MIT, among many others in the business, engineering, science, and technology fields. The four sections you are to read discuss quantum communications, quantum computation, software for quantum computers, and the uses of quantum technology.
Prepare responses (300-500 words) for each of the following questions below. 

1. According to the article, how do ambitions for quantum networks differ across nation-states around the world, and why? Include your own convictions about what role quantum networks should play.

Quantum networks make the transmission of information in the form of qubits between physically disjointed processors possible. That’s an important infrastructure needed to connect senders and receivers.  
China is the leading nation-state that has created the most ambitious quantum network in the world to date. China’s quantum network connects Beijing and Shanghai via Jinan and Hefei.Jivan has a metro network of over 70 square kilometers with 50 “nodes”, and Hefei with 46 nodes network. These numbers are huge compared with other countries, their capacities and work done so far towards creating a quantum network. 
South Korea’s government is funding a 250km link to join existing metro quantum networks. 
Britain will create a network between the cities of Bristol and Cambridge via London, which compared with China is less ambitious , but will have a similar length as South Korea’s network.
Compared with other countries, Australia is building a closed government network in the capital, Canberra. It should be mentioned that the length of the network is also a challenge. 
Though China is on the same list with these countries it’s role and engagement is incomparable. China has launched Micius, a quantum-key-distribution-enabled satellite backed by tech companies including Huawei and Lenovo. 
The government-industry connection brings more opportunities for the development of a network and a technology in general. In all these countries the key role plays the government as it supports the development of quantum networks. We believe, quantum networks with quantum-enabled satellites will create a baseline and a strong ground for the development of the quantum internet, which will bring new opportunities for quantum enhanced security. We believe that if more countries start working toward these goals, the faster the development of the technology will be. The quantum internet will solve major problems that people, companies, organizations and governments face nowadays connected with privacy. We think that it is firstly the priority of governments to work and invest towards creating a quantum internet with potential to establish more trustworthy communications in means of privacy. 
 
2. Give four reasons why corporations and governments believe "the time for investment, all agree, is now" for quantum computation, according to the article. Comment on which of the reasons you believe are most convincing.
 
Even small and not yet advanced quantum computers are able to solve problems that are not solvable with classical computers. This brings new horizons, perspectives and new ways to commercialize the technology and earn revenue.  Already, startups and consulting firms are creating ways to match prospective small quantum computers to problems faced in sectors including quantitative finance, drug discovery and oil and gas.
1. Quantum simulators can help to design and create room-temperature superconductors, which will allow electricity to be transmitted without losses, or with investigating the nitrogenase reaction used to make most of the world’s fertiliser. Quantum simulators are computers that mimic real physical systems.
2. Fintech:  Hyder Jaffrey, head of Strategic Investments and Fintech Innovation at UBS Investment Bank, says he prioritises quantum computing as he does it with artificial intelligence and blockchains, “all these evolving technologies with the potential to change markets”. So here comes a factor of competition, if one bank uses quantum computing and starts to benefit, others should start to. They work with QxBranch startup which uses quantum algorithms in foreign-exchange trading and arbitrage.
3. Strategic reasons: The founder of quantum-technology institute of Netherlands states “We don’t want to risk the scenario that we have invested all this money for years and in the end the money is going to be made in the US or China,” she says. She emphasizes the case of defence applications, where she believes security plays a role too: “If you have to buy it off the shelf, it’s not just an economic disadvantage, it’s also dangerous.”                                                                  We think the first one is the most convincing. Investments are worth the money if and only if investors have an idea how their investment will pay off. Most research funding comes from two major sources: corporations and the government. Companies have a goal to create products that will be compatible, useful and will solve a real problem, a problem, which solution will help them earn more money. Governments on the other hand have goals to make the countries economy more stable, stronger and compatible with other countries, in the case of quantum computing the government has also a goal to create networks for the development of quantum internet (refer to the first question). Blue-chip companies including Intel, Hewlett-Packard, Google and Microsoft all have research programmes. Last year IBM released Quantum Experience, which lets all interested people play and experiment with a crude quantum computer over the internet. 

3. The article quotes IBM vice president Dario Gil saying, "The power of quantum computing is rediscovering all the problems that computers cannot solve, and having a path to solving them."Discuss three ways "quantum software" addresses this idea, and argue whether one should believe Dr. Gil's statement (or not).

In the article we see that Dr Shor was the first scientist who showed that a quantum computer would be able to work out the prime numbers that, multiplied together become a significantly large number. The fact that this “decomposition” is mathematically very hard is the basis of cryptographic protocols which are used nowadays. Starting from that, researchers have come up with a lot of problems for which quantum computers can be way better and can be superior to the best supercomputers. Also they come up with many algorithms, or sets of steps, to break down problems in such a way that quantum computers can crunch through them.
So here we see that researchers and scientists are working towards rediscovering all the problems that computers cannot solve, through quantum computers and new algorithms based on prior discoveries. 
Also, there are even problems that are not solvable with help of classical computers, and if a computer big enough to do what Dr Shor has envisioned, will be useful for that problems as well. 
We would like to citate these words of Tim Polk of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy from the article below:
 “We certainly expect there are many additional things that we’ll be able to do with quantum beyond the things we know of,” 
 “We had no idea of all the things we’d be able to build with the transistor, and we see the same thing with quantum.” 
 
There are problems that classical computers cannot solve, also there are problems that classical computers do solve but not quite effectively. Here we see the third type of problems which can be solved with the help of quantum computers. Tim Polk refers to it and we agree with the idea that sole solutions can bring to other ones and nowadays we cannot fully imagine the scope of solutions that quantum computers and technologies will bring.
Security and Development of post-quantum ciphers. The idea of post-quantum ciphers is the challenge and idea is to create ciphers that future quantum computers will be unable to crack. It has a goal to identify a way of data encryption that is difficult to break without needing too much memory or computation to implement. Nowadays the standard is RSA, which could be made hard enough to break, but the cryptographic keys would have to be a terabyte long which is an impracticable option. For example elliptic-curve cryptography keys are just 32 bytes long; any post-quantum solution needs to be sufficiently secure.
So this article both describes the challenges of security and networks but also the challenges connected to post-quantum ciphers.
 
The phrase is accurate, as quantum computing brings new challenges, new solutions and new problems connected with possible solutions. We do agree with that statement. The only thing that is arguable is that there are comparably more problems without clear paths to solve them then there are actual paths for solutions (find our ideas below each point). 
 
4. The article states "subjects that used to be mere footnotes to physics will rule, and engineers (and perhaps even consumers) will have to learn to speak quantum." How is this point presented in the article (cite corporate and government examples), and can you give examples from your own experience?
1. To a great extent, quantum weirdness escaped the lab, as on account of the superconducting quantum interference device, a stunningly sensitive magnetic field sensor. The first of these was created in 1964 at Ford Research Laboratory, the American carmaker's blue-skies examine office. And now we can see it’s use  today  as they are generally utilized, for instance in MRI machines. That’s why it is very important to make more research on new quantum theories and usage so that we can use it in our ordinary life in the future, after developing it for some time.
2.However there might be a big danger coming from realesing  a lot of quantum knowledge and tools in the masses. But quantum technologies will not pass into the wider world in the same way as the global positioning system, which was developed with copious government funding behind closed doors and then handed over as a public good. “It’s just not like that today,” says Neil Stansfield, formerly of the British government’s Defence Science and Technology Laboratory. “We’re not the big kid on the government block, and certainly not on the global block.”. IMagine giving knowledge of utilizing atom to everyone, in hope that they will make a energy sources from it, and not Atmoic bombs.
3. But also there is a beauty in the unknown.ob Wisnieff, a manager at IBM’s microelectronics-research labs, says that “we’re not that far from being capable…of building quantum computers that will do things we cannot predict exactly.” John Preskill, a quantum expert at the California Institute of Technology, who coined the phrase “quantum supremacy”, has said that “a quantum computer can simulate efficiently any physical process that occurs in nature. Maybe. We don’t actually know for sure.”. And it is very important to discover new things to enlarge our knowledge in science and have a opportunity in future that we can’t imagine now. If Edison did not invented the light bulb, there would be no LED lights today. It is very important to start teaching about quantum computing to wide masses, as the need of it arises, more and more. Even I had an experience were, in my job place, we needed to secure our information with very secure way, and I someone suggested the quantum cryptography, however at that time nobody knew about it, so we just declined it, now reflecting back on it I think it would be much better if we knew about quantum computing long ago.
