Contributors: Elen Gabrielyan & Ruben Gevorgyan


In this activity, you will read three articles and then choose one on which to focus. For the one you choose to investigate further, identify outreach articles about it and submit a written response to the questions below. The objective is for you to bridge quantum simulations towards business and technology. Please read the directions below carefully and complete the assignment in full.
Begin by reading the abstracts of the following articles:
1. Observation of a Many-Body Dynamical Phase Transition with a 53-qubit Quantum Simulator. Nature, volume 551, pages 601–604 (30 November 2017)  [PDF download]
https://www.nature.com/articles/nature24654
https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.01044
2. Scalable Quantum Simulation of Molecular Energies. Physical Review X, vol. 6 (2016), pp. 031007 [PDF download]
https://research.google/pubs/pub44815/
https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.06860
3. Hardware-efficient Variational Quantum Eigensolver for Small Molecules and Quantum Magnets. Nature, volume 549, pages 242–246 (14 September 2017) [PDF download]
https://www.nature.com/articles/nature23879
https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.05018

1. These are three experimental demonstrations of quantum simulations. Noting its relative date of publication, describe your chosen paper's impact in the business trade press. Do you feel it had the largest influence of the three? Why or why not?

We have chosen the second article, Scalable Quantum Simulation of Molecular Energies, which was published in 2016. We have read a number of articles connected to this one and others and came to a conclusion that quantum simulation of molecular energies is able to impact a bigger scale of audience and has a much wider magnitude of business opportunities nowadays than others. We have researched having a focus in mind to nowadays problems and how those researches and technologies can impact and solve those.                                                                                                         Nowadays one of the biggest challenges businesses, governments and the world in general faces is the challenge to create a vaccine for CVOD-19. The question that arises is what does the simulation of molecular energies do with the research needed to find the vaccine. Viruses are big molecules as they are made of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen and etc. The problem arises when the active parts of those molecules start to interact with human bodies and the cells in it, by creating negative changes and harming human health. With simpler words, the idea behind vaccines and drugs is a creation of the combination of other molecules that can interact with the molecules of the virus and disable it with interacting with human molecules and cells. The challenge here is to try to find those molecules, but it’s a time consuming and quite hard challenge, because most importantly there should be clinical trials as well to prove it’s effectiveness and safety. This cannot be done on humans, as the cost is too high (human health and lives). This should be done with help of simulators. Here come quantum simulations. This is a great business opportunity and not only, of course. Countries will be more than happy to pay for the research and implementation. Quantum computing can help to lessen the time required for the simulation of big molecules. This is more about perspectives and works/articles/researches done on it. But talking about dates and direct connection with the article and the content int, in the 2017 in the Chemical and Engineering News had a headline:  “Chemistry Is Quantum Computing’s Killer App. It was directly connected to the use of quantum machines as a dool to develop new drugs and materials. Also, a 2018 report by the Boston Consulting Group suggested that a huge $20-billion quantum pharmaceutical industry could emerge by 2030. So these are business opportunities we came across with and think can be promising for upcoming years. We used this sources: 
https://physics.aps.org/articles/v12/112   
https://advances.sciencemag.org/content/6/19/eaat9488 https://www.sciencenews.org/article/quantum-computers-are-about-get-real  https://www.enterpriseai.news/2020/04/21/chemical-discovery-at-industrial-medical-companies-aided-by-carnegie-mellons-neural-network-tool/ https://thenewleam.com/2020/05/mapping-possible-solutions-to-the-covid-19-pandemic-the-urgency-of-an-interdisciplinary-approach/                                                                                    
Regarding the first article, it also had an impacted audience which is both scientists, researchers, and startups. "Quantum simulations are widely believed to be one of the first useful applications of quantum computers," says Alexey Gorshkov, NIST theoretical physicist and co-author of the study. "After perfecting these quantum simulators, we can then implement quantum circuits and eventually quantum-connect many such ion chains together to build a full-scale quantum computer with a much wider domain of applications." In the first article below it is shown and discussed in detail the atomic advantage based on our first article. And having perspectives to implement quantum circuits and quantum computers, will bring a huge domain of applications, hence business perspectives.                                                                                                               
https://physics.aps.org/articles/v10/95                
https://advances.sciencemag.org/content/5/8/eaax1568 https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2017/11/171129131434.htm                                          
Regarding the third article. With future quantum processors with much bigger volume will be able to explore the approach described in the article for many complex molecules, which classical computers are unable to explore. Which means that the new opportunities are connected with the ability to simulate chemical reactions accurately.  If so, the business perspectives that it will allow to create new drugs, fertilizers and even new sustainable energy sources. This is more than one industry.                                                                                                                                     Sources:                                                    
https://phys.org/news/2017-09-molecule-energy-quantum.html  https://physics.aps.org/articles/v12/112   https://venturebeat.com/2019/03/27/ibms-quantum-computation-technique-mitigates-noise-and-improves-accuracy/
2. Two of the papers employ superconducting qubits, and were from research at large corporations, while one paper describes research using atomic qubits, performed at a research university. Based on how these results were received in the news press, can you see how the technology, and the research institution, made a difference in expectations for future developments?

Third article on Hardware-efficient Variational Quantum Eigensolver for Small Molecules and Quantum Magnets is from IBM, one of the leading corporations in the sphere of quantum computing. And like the second article supported by the big corporation, these two had more non-scientific articles based on them with different perspectives of use and development of the technology in the context of business opportunities and problems that they are going to solve. We agreed that both organizations have an impact, but we would rather say that large corporations have bigger opportunities to apply research to solving real industry problems, aslo let’s bring this example: back when this research article  was posted (2017) Google, had a nine-qubit computer and had huge plans to scale up to 49 qubits. IBM, like Google, also had huge plans. In March of 2017, the company announced it would build a 50-qubit computer in the next few years and make it available to be among the first adopters of the technology. Of course those numbers and the bar are much higher now, but the important thing is that both companies had a vision to create quantum computers which can be used in business perspectives and have a big capacity. Both three have social impact, but again we would say that big corporations have bigger social impact as well, as for example IBM creates enormous opportunities for scientists, new comers, everyone interested in quantum computing, also IBM are pushing their quantum computers to users via the Web. “A lot of these companies are realizing that they need people to start playing around with these things,” Devitt says. Same cannot happen in universities, they don’t have similar power, access to data hence similar impact.  We think that the main difference is the core of motivation. Big corporations have a goal to be the first one in the market, hence develop everything as fast as possible and focus on things that will make quantum computers more effective and give that computers available among the first adopters of the technology. So here comes the motivation, goals and importance of timing. Also, the bigger impact you have, the stronger your organization is. 
3. Imagine that you are responsible for investing the money of a company or a funding agency interested in the further development of quantum computation. Would you invest your money in your chosen paper's project? Why or why not?

We would definitely invest in a company or a funding agency interested in the further development of quantum computation in our chosen paper. Referring to the previous answers.                                                                                     
1. One of the biggest industries that our paper has(and is capable to have) an impact on is a healthcare industry. The global healthcare IT market size was valued at USD 125 billion in 2015, reaching USD 297 billion by 2022, with a CAGR of 13.2%. Also, The global market for pharmaceuticals reached $1.2 trillion in 2018, up $100 billion from 2017, according to the Global Use of Medicines report from the IQVIA Institute for Human Data Science. This is just only two markets that can be affected by the project we chose.                                                                                                             Financially, this investment would be much beneficial for us.                                                                                                     
2. Social impact: also referring to our first answer, there is a chance that with quantum computation there is a chance to easier and faster find a vaccine with less side effects and errors. This project will bring new opportunities connected with the ability to simulate chemical reactions accurately.  If so, the business perspectives that it will allow to create new drugs, fertilizers and even new sustainable energy sources. This is more than one industry, hence many business opportunities with prospects to gain more money back from the investments..                                                                                               
3.  Again referring to the first question and our answer:  There is a huge atomic advantage which gives perspectives to implement quantum circuits and quantum computers, which on its own will bring a huge domain of applications, hence business perspectives. As Alexey Gorshkov, NIST theoretical physicist and co-author of the study says "After perfecting these quantum simulators, we can then implement quantum circuits and eventually quantum-connect many such ion chains together to build a full-scale quantum computer with a much wider domain of applications."

